Hello this is Carol from for Expo dot com.
And welcome to the 16th tutorial on algorithmic trading for beginners.
And in this tutorial we're going to be talking about functions in general for so what are functions.
Functions are very similar to a blender.
Let me explain.
If you take a blender if you take some fruit and you put it into a blender then as an output you will
receive a very tasty and amazing fruit smoothie.
So basically you take fruit you put in a blender you get a smoothie functions in em kill four and essentially
any other programming language work on a very very similar basis.
All you need to do is take some input variables you put them into a function which is a blender in this
example and you get a result as your output which is our smoothy in this example.
And so that's basically how they work.
Let's see how this all materializes in practice.
So here I've prepared a tutorial number 16 a blank script like we usually do and we're going to create
two values in On-Star functional code will create a value into a and you get a value of.
We give this variable a value of 10 and it will create a variable and be given a value of 5.
Now we want to add these two values but we don't want.
Just like we usually do we don't want to just say see Cool's A plus B semicon because we worry not how
to do this we want to use a function to add these two values.
And B basically we want to take this bit and we want to outsource this calculation to a designated function.
So we get rid of that for now and we'll create a new function and this function we will call my addition.
So that's the name or all function.
Now within curly brackets.
We have to specify what this function will accept as parameters.
In our case it will accept a value an integer value which will be value 1 and in other integer value
value 2.
So those two values have to be separated by a comma and you can give them any names you like but the
main point of this declaration part is to actually tell the user of or the code that we'll be using
this function.
What kind of parameters you are.
Are X are acceptable to be passed on to this function.
In our case this function can only accept two integer values.
Next we want to say what this function will be outputting so often will be outputting an integer value.
So that's why here at the beginning we'll type in.
We don't put any name off to as we just type it.
And that means that this function will be putting an integer if you call the diagram and we looked at
previous.
So this will be a fruit or this will be a specification that you want.
What kind of fruit or what kind of objects you're allowed to put in the blender.
This is the name of the blender and this is the type of smoothie that you get as an output of this blender.
So that's this part is called a declaration of a function.
And often in programming languages you will see a semicolon at the end and this part will be separate
to the actual body and description of the function.
It could be in a header file it could be at the top of this file somewhere here but in Ankiel for we
don't have to worry about that we don't need to create declarations.
We're not going to worry about that we'll just create the whole function right away which will save
us some time and it's just easier to understand that way.
So after the declaration we need to
enter or specify the body of the function what exactly it will do.
So we're going to add two curly brackets.
And within these curly brackets we have to write the body of the function.
I hope you're noticing some similarity between this part and this part so also keyword keyword name
a function and function brackets brackets and curly brackets curly brackets and the body goes in here.
Correct.
That's because this On-Star part of our program is actually also a function.
It's a pretty fine function but it still is a function.
Now within the addition function we want to specify what exactly our function will do with these two
variables.
So we want to add these two variables we want to call value 1 plus value 2.
And so if we put a semi-colon in it and what will happen is these two values will be will be added and
then they'll be basically the function will finish its execution and they'll be forgotten.
We actually want to return these the sum of these two values to the calling code.
So here we'll write return.
So we want to add these two values the result we want to return it and then say colon.
And that rule that says that basically means the end of our function.
So here in C we want to call a function so we'll take my addition we'll call it here and within the
brackets as you can see him kill for is already prompting us what it wants within these brackets and
it has to be an integer and an other integer and also kill for is telling that telling us that the function
will return an integer and it's getting this information from down here.
So we want to parse two integers which will be a and comma B.
And then we have to put a semicolon on and so that will add the two values and B and put the result
into variable c..
How can we check that we can check that very easily with our alerts that we'll type in C equals call
mom and we will type in C so this is a text and this is actually the value of c.
And once again alert and in brackets brackets semi-colon does that remind you of this.
That's correct.
Because it is also a function as you can see a lot of our program actually consist of function because
it's a very convenient way of separating your code.
So now let's get back to this and compile it.
No errors.
Let's go to the terminal.
There we are.
And so now we will drag our tutorial 16 onto this chart
that sets an existing order that we had actually.
I won't drag it.
Now I'll just I'll just close this order for now.
So it's not in the way.
All right so turtle 16 as you can see C equals 15 which is correct.
Now if we go back to our code we can easily change the function if we want to multiply we put a star
here.
Compile.
Go back to the terminal.
Now if we pull over Tauriel 16 see the result is 50 C equals 50.
And that basically means that we've just changed the function.
You can also divide one by the other compile terminal
sequel's too.
So that's basically it that's how functions work.
They allow you to outsource bits of your code or separated.
And then you can very quickly modify it and you can use this function many times if your code.
And imagine if you wanted if you had two more variables here.
D equals 100 and it equals 20 and you wanted to do the same thing with them.
You could you could just copy the function and you could go type and D E here and now you using this
function twice.
But if you want to change what this function does then you just have to change it once so it actually
speeds up the process.
It's a very convenient way of programming.
Let's go back to that presentation and see what what is next.
So the result the result can be of two types the result can be an output value as we have seen or the
result can be an action an action such as display a message which we have seen in the case of the alert
function.
What it does it doesn't add anything but it actually plays a message on your screen function can draw
an object a function can open close modify an order and etc. and this particular case when a function
opens an order we look we saw that in the previous tutorial when we use the order send function and
it by passing parameters into that function it created an order for us and also a function can do the
combination of these two.
It can do an action and you can output a value at the same time.
And let's go back to our previous tutorial just quickly tutorial 15 and look at the code here.
If you remember this code it actually gave us a warning.
And so we'll compile this now.
And it compiles but it still gives us a warning and says return value of order send should be checked.
And if we go into order send by clicking F1 here we can see that order sent actually returns an integer.
So it not only does an action after receiving all of these parameters meaning it opens an order.
It also returns an integer and we won't go into a lot of detail at this stage but this integer actually
it carries an important function it tells us our important purpose it tells us whether or not the order
was open successfully.
And if this integer is less than zero then the order was not open successfully.
And that's how you know that's why the compiler is asking us to check those values so ideally we should
have here we should have something like resolved equals orders sent and then here we would have some
code to check result.
So if we compile that now we won't get any errors because the compilers happy that we're accounting
for this return value.
And we're checking it.
But we'll go deeper into this further on through the course.
At this stage we should just remember that functions take input variables and then they have an output
value and they do something in their body which can be an action or some manipulation of the values.
And most of the time they return a value.
So that's that.
That's quite a lot of different information for today.
So maybe have a look at this function and the scope and create some of your own personal functions maybe
addition subtraction maybe add some more out of variables into this code just to understand how functions
work and how you can use them in your own programs.
And we will definitely be using them going forward because in the next couple of turtles we're going
to be really closing orders using function the order close function and modifying orders and so on.
So that's it for this Tauriel and until next time IP coning.